and 68 head plans have gone to Grambling
on Southern University in Louisiana I
came out here with my sister she was
going to Southern Cal and after had come
out I checked out the program for
veterans at UCLA and I ended up in
enrolling at UCLA and at the same time I
was meeting a lot of brothers who were
sisters who were involved in the
movement and eventually I became
involved know it's kind of a long story
you know going back to the background I
come from that's old separate-but-equal
doctrine in the south you know school on
this side of the tracks segregated
facilities everywhere enough I've been
seeing racism you know face to face all
my life in Vietnam also became a weaken
to a lot of things that I wasn't aware
after coming from Vietnam and trying to
enroll in the College in Los Angeles I
think really did the trick in making me
aware as to exactly what was happening
seeing the helicopters fly over whites
at night with these searchlights
reminded me of when I was in pleiku
Vietnam you know some parts of Vietnam
where we were used to patrol at night
being stopped by the LAPD numerous times
only because I was just traveling
through that part of town and being
harassed seeing the harassment all
around the problems that were going on
in the communities in the country said
you got them waking to other things
the first thing that really had an
impact I could remember right off the
top of my head was uh the Vietnamese
that of the Vietnamese soldiers had
passed out a lot of leaflets not pass
them out that there were everywhere we
were on patrol one day and I hadn't been
that for about maybe two weeks and on
the leafless they were talking it was a
lot of propaganda
you know communist propaganda and a lot
of the statements on that they had on
releases were true there's things like
we never caught you [ __ ] you know why
you fighting us and right it was a lot
of propaganda right and I was yeah a lot
of it made sense and even though that's
not the thing that really did open my
eyes it began it started me to
questioning things more because I hadn't
really questioned the war I was American
I just over there doing my duty for my
country you know and it was a lot of
things that really made me see that how
much I was programmed and confused about
this whole war you know to the point
that I realized at a certain point that
I was fighting people who was in who
were in the same situation that I was
and my people were and from that I began
to do more studying and of course
Malcolm had already had a influence on
me in my younger age and I didn't know
that much about that but quite a few
things when Martin Luther King got
killed I was sitting on a bunker and
North in fact I had got wounded for the
second time few days before then and I
was still out there and the bushes you
know when we got the word on yeah Radio
Free Europe or whatever it was that we
got the word on it King had been
assassinated all these things had a hell
of
in fact you decorated Vietnam back to
you
well yeah I received whatever right two
Purple Hearts to brown stars
recommendation for the Silver Star
soldiers mellow commendation they are
metals oh you know quite a few so I came
back to Los Angeles Scott Road UCLA yes
we're later on after bunchy Carter who
was the ranking member of the
organization in Los Angles was
assassinated at UCLA
I succeeded in him but prior to then I
was more of a community worker because I
was first of all college students trying
to go through college and in the free
time I would work in the community we
were trying to initiate free clothing
free breakfast all during that period
and it was real hard free clothing and
breakfast programs where we would get a
lot of donations people who wanted to
help the first have started that from
education educational standpoint and
after people would go through these
educational meetings and sessions then
it would you will see a more forgiving
kind of attitude so we ran across a lot
of people who had a lot of things that
they just was sitting on so when they
were given to us we would create we had
the black house at the coffee house on
103rd Street and once we had a different
location that we would try to
disseminate these materials out into the
community at the same time we were
conducting economic education classes
political education class to try to show
people in the community how they could
survive better by through few go through
Gallatin through budgeting themselves
better through knowing how to shop
knowing that this guy here and whites
charge you $12 for pair of shoes
and you can whereas you can go to
Beverly Hills and get those same pair of
shoes for six dollars things like this
we would show and people will become
more educated and at the corner as a
result the local merchants in the black
areas or ghetto areas became and since
we came mad at us for exposing this
exploitation and then turn would cry to
the local police departments and they
would cause them to you know come down
on us more harder and there was no guns
and nothing involved it was basic
education more like I said earlier I was
constantly stopped in arrest grab the
car and [ __ ] you know Pat searched and
sometimes we would have women and
children in the car and it will be
treated the same and so the question
kept coming up in my mind as to why you
know we've been met with so much
harassment and beauty ality and that
only served to sharpen the contradiction
and exposed to me and other younger
Panthers around our community workers
that we must have been doing something
right because we knew we weren't doing
anything wrong yet we were still being
attacked
did you feel at that time that you were
being that the police had surveillance
on besides harassment that they were
keeping notes on what you were doing and
which has come out in this after that
going
don't tear up oh yeah yeah but I didn't
realize that at that time I had no idea
that they considered us so much that
they would waste so much money and time
from their agencies such as the FBI and
the CIA you know a lot of people talk
about where corn tempura is pretty well
talked about nowadays but what's not
exposed as operation chaos see at the
same time the CIA had an operation
called chaos it was codenamed chaos
which was very similar to corn tail Pro
so lluvia detect on some pretty strong
point from some pretty strong quarters
in fact the same operations that they
level against us were very similar to
the operation that they level against
governments of foreign governments that
they want to overthrow such as alien the
government in Chile and the illumine war
I mean all throughout that history when
the CIA FBI began you know he's kind of
no closer home domestic type problem is
they probably labeled you then there was
a murder in Santa Monica yes
what are your comments on the murder did
obviously so you didn't do it is that
right well you see the murder took place
in December of 1968 December of 1968 I
had been here for about two months in
California yeah in Los Angeles and I was
real green so far as getting getting
around you know Los Angeles is a big
city I didn't know my way around but
during that time I was sent up to
Oakland extra go up to Oakland to become
more familiarize with the party's
function because I was working pretty
consistently with the the teleporters
program social programs in the community
and so bunchy Carter asked me to go up
and so I went up and I was in Oakland
during that whole period when the murder
took place about two years later I was
indicted for that murder and it was the
first time I had ever heard anything of
a murder in Santa Monica so there was
witnesses that said that testified in
your trial that you in San Francisco
well first Kathleen cleaver came from
Algeria Algiers in Africa to testify
surely you it came from Oakland
Linda a sister named Melinda gray
testified shoots from Los Angeles the
brothers in charge of the Black Student
Union at UCLA testified my sister her
family members testified I had an eye
witness expert I had quite a few
witnesses testified but I didn't know at
the time that the FBI had surveillance
records of this and also electronic
surveillance in which they had
conversation telephonic conversations of
me talking from Oakland to Los Angeles
and during this period so we have enough
information and evidence to cry
my alibi and this doesn't seem to be the
problem right now so in the trial how he
had these witnesses testified that
you're in San Francisco how then could
you be convicted what was he well you
had to look at the what the party was
going through at the time the Panther
Party it was at the crux of the attack
of corn to our program chaos by you know
FBI and CIA who was still living here
declared that we were the greatest
threat to the internal security of the
United States they had succeeded in
planning evil seeds of mistrust of
dissension of spreading gossip and
rumors that were not true causing quite
a bit of consternation between members
of the organization who were very close
to each other so this is the time when
it's which is referred to as a split in
the Black Panther Party this is also the
time and I have to go to trial right so
it's hard for me to try to communicate
from County Jail and I was always kept
in a hole and almost in and then
incommunicado status the two other
members of the organization who knew my
whereabouts during that time because of
the paranoid use of fear and the basic
destructive distrust that has been
caused by these County Jail you ever
kept the normal yeah I had been kept in
a hole consistently from the time of my
arrest until 1978
when I was released right when I was
released here and say I'm quitting to
the man line but I had never been out of
the hole wait and when did you come here
and 72 72 what was the justification for
putting in well first it was said that I
was to notorious notoriety not allowed
today know that that's what they put on
the forms that they used to justify but
I take that in federal court and will do
to go to trial on it in March of next
year for so many years and it was not
justified they knew that it wasn't
justified it was basically because of
political reasons and you know people
who come in from the Ku Klux Klan from a
John Birch Society from all different
kind of organizations who are not
treated the way I was treated serving a
life sentence is that right yes you know
you're taking the fact that they put you
in the hole for some eight years taking
it to federal court now what can you
gain uh well first of all during those
eight years each seemed like each year
they were the the prison administration
would have to come up with some pretext
to justify maintaining that me and that
status in that whole status throughout
those years I was accused of everything
from child kidnapping holding people's
people hostage assaulting prison staff I
mean all kind of hideous kind of crimes
that you could think of I want I want
these things they're like an open court
they're not true I was accused of being
a member of prison gangs in which she
was never been true I've been accused of
a lot of things that's not true also
must fundamental to all this is that the
FBI did not continue their program
against me it carried right over into
right on into prison whereas usually
such as I give you wraparound for
instance when rat was busted he was
taken off the active index file index
files of the FBI and this has been
usually the case with everyone you know
you were in prison
you know you neutralized like they say
this didn't happen to me I didn't find
this out until I filed a suit in 75 and
we got documents and so far as I know
I'm still only active index file and
I've been in prison almost 12 years so
come on tell profiling me in prison
the FBI was sending teletypes to the
warden and local administrators
concerning my my status in prison one
dealt with am I still in the hole so all
this goes to indicate and then
strengthen my position which I've been
saying all along that they knew I'm not
guilty they've been knowing all along
but being in the hole is almost
impossible for you to fight and expose
the truth that you have been railroaded
you faced with murders every day all
kind of racial madness all kind of
name-calling all kind of attacks from
the guards because they look upon you as
animals especially if you were in the
hole and you're in the hole in San
Quentin and Folsom - you know on top of
that you're sure surely treated as
animal and it's kind of you know it's
hard so one it wasn't until I was
released from the hole in 78 when I was
able to really attack these lives you
know of my conviction and that's why
you've been here for the past four or
five years about the case because I've
never given up I'm not going to give up
you know but I figured that they wanted
me to lay down I'll break me doing those
years on the whole there was a person
who testified against you I guess he was
also a panther
Julius Butler yes Association well
Julius Butler worked for the Los Angeles
deputy
I mean Los Angeles search Department he
was a deputy sure quite some time I
don't know if he if he ever was a
panther per se because he joined the
party from what I understand under
Bunch's administration punchy's caught a
bunch of Carter's and I didn't I was
never able to check to see if that was
legitimate but in hindsight I didn't I
don't think it was looking back now
because it's clear that Giulio was
assigned to infiltrate the Black Panther
Party and cause disturbance and problems
was he the main main to Olin in
convicting you well
the main tool in my conviction and you
have to also keep in mind the murder
conviction was only one I was also
convicted of two other cases and I'm
also wanted right now in Alabama in a
place that I've never even heard of so I
say all this to say that the main
provocateur the main element and my
problems with the courts in here in this
country has been the FBI and their fear
or their paranoia or their fascists
tactics and trying to neutralize a
movement that they didn't like now Julia
Butler played a prominent role in that
and that he lied and said that he had
knowledge of me in relation to this
murder he also lied on the stand that he
never worked with the FBI he never
talked to anyone and all these things
have been pretty well publicized now
that we have documents of him a
reporting to the FBI almost on a daily
basis we have 33 actual documents which
shows his contact would there be a prior
and
up to and beyond the murder trial itself
so the question comes up why did he lie
or why did the FBI FBI line why did they
lie about the surveillance records they
had on me in Oakland why did they
destroy the files at the end of me
talking on the phone and telephonic
surveillance all these things didn't
come out and trial we didn't know about
it I was under a lot of pressure my wife
had just gotten murdered she was just
murdered in 71 I went to trial shortly
thereafter I had just undergone a long
ordeal throughout the shootout trial I
was also being charged with numerous
assaults out of Los Angeles County
because of the what's called jail face
we would be jumped on a lot by the Los
Angeles deputy sheriff's department
I was also accused of all kind of wild
crazy stuff that nobody talks about
anymore but I'm trying to get paint a
picture to show you the frame of mind I
was in during that time when it took me
to trial for this murder it was very
very difficult the Panthers were being
destroyed it was all kind of paranoia I
couldn't communicate with anyone
everybody was worried they'd heard this
they'd heard that the FBI had spread all
kind of lies and rumors about so it was
a real difficult time how about the
trial itself could you paint a picture
well the trial of the trial itself
seemed to me that we had wanted even
though we didn't have the information
that we have now Johnnie Cochran was my
attorney and he was was pretty effective
in exposing the truth about the lies
that were being told for instance on one
hand you had a so-called high witness
putting me near the scene of the crime
saying that the person that they had
seen who they said was me was clean
shaven right and then
painted a picture made a composite
drawing of a guy who was clean-shaven
you know and really didn't look anything
like me
Giulio Butler on the other hand who's
also a prosecution witness testified
that during the night of the murder
that I was never clean-shaven he always
seen me with this what you see me with
now now all this is lies you know I know
I you know I'm not even around I'm in
Oakland but this is just to show you
some of the contradictions that came up
but so far as eyewitness I think the
major one or one of the major one ones
that came up was the one with the guy
who was shot he had identified another
guy something like a few months after
the murder had occurred and this was
back in 68 or 69 before my name
Ellington came up when my name was
brought into the picture some two years
later this guy said that oh this is him
right and when he was asked well are you
positive are you sure have you
identified anyone else he said no I've
never identified anyone and this is the
guy and it was all strange the whole
lineup the whole makeup all of that
whole thing was very questionable
gentleman identified someone else in 69
here at a 72 yeah a few years later he
was he pointed me out in a book that
strongly suggested that uh I should be
the one that he should pick out now this
is being litigated also because of the
unconstitutionality of that process
there were two gentlemen shot at UCLA or
not you to UCLA and she
Fred Hampton and mont cloth four days
after that there was a salt on your
house yes that was in December of 1969
Jagga Hoover has sent out an order
throughout the country that he wanted
all Panthers chapters neutralized he
wanted us just wiped off the street so
it was a nationwide conspiracy against
the Panther Party and they attacked our
offices in Chicago forests but really
they attacked the offices in Seattle I
think the mornings our but the one about
Chicago just Fred was killed the one in
tomorrow they just blew the whole office
up with dynamite and they would do this
a lot through the little right-wing
organizations that they were
manipulating use such as a clan or the
Minuteman are in Los Angeles a would use
the gusano was a lot the anti-castro
Cubans to attack us in Los Angeles
oh they will try to manipulate the nine
antagonistic contradiction between those
organizations and the Panthers so
what happened in December of 69 was four
days after the attack in Chicago we were
attacked in Los Angeles to give you some
background the Los Angeles Police
Department had surrounded our offices on
41st in Central and November and about
two weeks prior to them and we also had
been informed from people who were
working in the Los Angeles Police
Department and people who around them
that they would be attacking us that
they heard rumors to this effect and we
were trying to figure out you know what
was happening so when the police came
they came about three or four in the
morning and they conducted a sneak
attack against our officers I wasn't
there I was at our community center on
55th off of Broadway three locations
were attacked that morning and it just
so happened at the one at Central the
brothers who were there heard them
coming and looked and saw some white
guys just with computing shirts I mean
you know it didn't look like any law
enforcement so they reacted thinking
that it was some right-wing organization
trying to murder the Panthers and so a
shootout ensued unless it's for about
four or five hours doing the four or
five hours of that shootout the police
department and working in cahoots with
the naval Department of the Army
intelligence but helicopters armored
vehicles and all kind of military
equipment to destroy the Panthers who
were there and it wasn't until the
community got together
you know South Central LA search
community and gathered about two blocks
down from where the police say cordon
off the area and demanded that the
police allow them to meet with the
Panthers to talk to talk to her they saw
no by this time it was about eight seven
to eight but it was still a stalemate
type situation there was thousands and
thousands of rounds fired but we had
foreseen you know the problem of police
just legally coming and killing people
killing kicking the doors down so I had
took taking precautions and had all of
the walls saying a sandbag we put sand
in between the petitions and the walls
it is a good thing we did because if it
wasn't wouldn't been for that every
Panther in there would have been torn to
pieces the helicopter also dropped
dynamite on the roof of the building and
it wouldn't be for the fortifications we
had made there that would have been a
total disaster
because the dynamite would have totally
blown the building apart so eventually
the community demanded that they tried
to resolve the situation and so when the
Panthers saw that the community was
there they submitted you know the
community say stop okay we stopped but
we're not going to give up to Ana
murderous pack of wild animals that come
at three o'clock in the morning for with
no legal basis whatsoever because in the
trial that came after that it was proven
that they were in the wrong then we
weren't so but nothing was done to them
they wasn't charged with any kind of
assault against us so we just beat that
case so to speak
even though I wasn't there I was one of
the only ones that was convicted out of
that trial and so they just convicted me
for possessing illegal weapons
that's one of my convictions today in
your murder trial I think it was found
out that one of your attorneys know
during the murder trial we learned later
on through the Freedom of Information
Act that we had gotten our documents
from the FBI it reflected that there was
there were quite a few informants around
during that time one was working for
attorney Janet Cochran in his office
Johnnie Cochran and I have talked
extensively about this and trying to get
to the bottom of this but the FBI has
not been forthcoming with any more
information and this goes right into the
basic the fundamental rights of men are
rights of people in this society when
going to trial that you never supposed
to violate a person's space with his
attorney his privacy was his attorney
this was violated not only through that
example I just gave but through other
examples which we now have evidence of
such as that they had agent right in the
county jail with me they had two other
agents who were masquerading as my
defense committee are working with my
defense committee and there's other
possible others that we have been able
to get any more information on okay
recently
last year your attorneys filed for a new
trial because of the information they
got status on that that was well it was
proud to when I finally made it out this
home I was able to get into my
conviction more and I was in 78 we began
the habeas process to try and expose the
truth about the murder and other this
other conviction and we were optimistic
because of the large amount of
information that had been gained from we
had gotten from the FBI by way of the
freedom of information their Freedom of
Information Act request we had made so
with this new a newly discovered
evidence this new evidence that we had
to corroborate everything that had been
saying all along
we went back into court only to be met
with a whole bunch of brand-new races
stonewalling you know and so it was shot
down on every level and right now we're
in the federal level in federal court
federal district court and we're waiting
awaiting the outcome of that right now
oh drone we trying to get relief the
relief reaction for us that everything
be thrown out but at least we're asking
for at the least our hearing for us to
put in open court the information that
we have and the information that they
have and they know that if we are
granted a hearing I don't care if we
have the most races of you know hateful
or most hateful judge in the world or
the effects still would come out because
it's not anything I've concocted it's
the information that has come out their
own files which shows very clearly that
I am innocent first of all the murder
that the circumstances surrounding the
Los Angeles to doubt are not the
circumstances which are reflected on the
legal documents
there have been forged they all bunch of
lives and also goes into the other
convictions and allegations that were
placed upon me in the 60s and that we
now know were nothing more than a bunch
of tactics that were concocted by the
FBI to try to neutralize me I don't know
they have months sometimes they take
months before they even room or make any
kind of ruling so we were just a matter
of wait those reports at San Quentin
also destroyed a lot of yes that goes
into the federal suit I had filed to get
out of the home during this process
which is in another court and it's
another legal process the attorney
general's office met with the federal
magistrate who was hearing my case and
tried to get him to say that there are
files which indicate that I have been
leading the black guerrilla family that
I have been involved in plots to
assassinate officials and shot that have
been involved in a lot of lies that they
had made up in the past to keep me in
the hole the very things that I had
attacked that's being untrue the federal
magistrate blew it and got mad and told
them that they what they were doing were
in fact in violation of federal statutes
and violation of the law and so
subsequently he found them in contempt
of court for trying to bribe a federal
judge
they were found guilty at least one of
them was found guilty and he was
sentenced to do something like 30 days
in parallel fine which he later beat on
appeal so that didn't go in and where
other than to reaffirm what we had been
saying all along the dirty tricks the
unfair Nestea we're trying to deal with
in this legal framework that goes way
back to when I first entered the black
liberation movement we were told you
have to go about things legally you have
to do things legally even though we're
an organization I'm speaking of the
Panthers now who taken our militant
stances against things we have to
operate within the confines of the law
so I would say that we were the most
law-abiding people during that period so
this is why the FBI had to result to all
these lies and techniques to trick us
because we were born by the so far as
the guns we studied the Constitution we
knew that we the Second Amendment of the
California Constitution gave us the
right to bear arms and since all this
murder all this
utility was going on in the kid in our
communities we had to defend ourselves
so we did that's what we did it within
the confines of the law but that still
didn't work you know we were still
painted as wild crazy gangsters who were
out to cause a lot of poverty you know
on one hand we were bunch of races who
will just have to kill a bunch of all
white folks you know and they just tried
everything you got a program converting
black youth this is transferable
crimes what not into political action
yeah it was that partying program - well
bunchy Carter apprentice my Jakarta I
think was giant a genius in doing that
he had grown up even though he was born
in LA and Louisiana he had grown up in
the east side of Los Angeles and at that
time they had a lot of games you
probably heard of the old slauson's the
Old Farmer's the old gladiators and
whatnot during the period of the
militant 60s the the it was a lot of
transformation taking place throughout
the country and a lot of brothers were
coming out of prison such as Eldridge
bunchy baby did a lot of brothers
returning to community who had awakened
themselves and wanted to come and share
this information and the tribe to help
resolve all these little conflicts that
were going on in the black community and
they begin this is prior to me coming to
Los Angeles after I had gotten here and
after bunchy or was assassinated I
continued that program and it was
successful because all of the gangs in
Los Angeles over transfer transformed
into more mobile political political
formations we got them studying into
black history we had them participating
into economic problem we had quite a few
brothers who were former gang members
participating in economic programs that
caused a lot of exploitation to be
avoided the example I had given you
earlier brothers had gotten in sisters
they gotten together and was righteously
feeding themselves righteously are
getting around the problem of clothing
or jobs even you know and
we had quite a few classes we had
started and after the Panthers were
destroyed if you want to use that then
you see the gangs popping up again
and killing each other all the problems
that don't popping up during the period
of dependence in Los Angeles engines
even though I worked in Chicago and New
York and other areas but I can speak
more certainly about Los Angeles the
influx of dope in the black community
was the lowest it has ever been in the
history of drugs in Los Angeles now this
is a statistics you're not gonna hear
mayor Bradley talk you're not gonna hear
on the radio you're not gonna hear these
things but uh we were very effective in
that guys who were in the Panthers were
former drug dealers and you know what
I'm saying and we had communications
with people who had to make their money
at that way and we so therefore we were
able to sit down with them in their
homes and and discuss these problems
that we had with drugs and we didn't
want this you know before it resulted to
any kind of warfare where we would have
to come and demand militantly that they
stopped these drug it had never in my
whole experiences experience in the
black liberation movement resulted to
any kind of violence and convincing
brothers not to keep these drugs coming
in the black community so these
successes Manny they helped out a lot
that was just one little another thing
that was very helpful it's really
pathetic man to hear about this PCP
thing it didn't have that in the sixties
that I didn't know about it but it's
really a shame I see brothers coming in
these prisons youngsters man with 25
years to life I mean 17 years to life
three or four murders and they're still
spaced out and you talk to them and they
are getting it really it really hurts
you know
over here about 10 years 12 years
I mean I'm entering my 12th year
district this month so how are you
holding up
it's hard but I'm still trying to fight
this old image that the CDC and the FBI
painted when I first came into prison
which image of a violent person who
commands any number of black prisoners
to do anything that I would want them to
do yeah I even discovered after I found
my federal suit to get out of the hole
that the CDC was actually disseminating
manuals and within the manual they had
manuals they had me in my picture and
everything in there and had me as a
leader of all kind of gangs now the
gangs by me being a whole I was real
ignorant to a lot of things not I'm only
hearing things sucking hand third-hand
information the information was not that
great white doing those years in the
hole so that made it easy for the
administration to make me what they
wanted because I wasn't there to refute
that I'm in the hole I can't go anywhere
but uh I found after I was able to
research it more thoroughly that the
majority of these so-called gangs were
created by the CDC of the FBI themselves
that didn't really exist now they had to
do this as a prerequisite are a
something that they needed in order to
justify their existence in other words
if you didn't have gang you would have
no need for a gang squad of you know law
enforcement agents okay so when these
formations began to
dissipate disappear after the Joe
Jackson or was murdered and after that
whole period all these SWAT teams all
these law enforcement formations had no
reason for existence so they had to
create these things you know I likes a
lot of brothers ivax brothers on top of
brothers how did the bgf start I have
never gotten one answer from that
everybody said man I don't know I heard
it from here and I heard it from there
you know so uh it's it's a whole nother
situation that really should be
investigated and studied by an
independent group I'm not talking about
me or by no performance by an
independent group to really check into
this and I'm sure there'll be some
Starling you know finding doing the
white rat I was on my way to Vietnam and
I stopped to the Los Angeles see my
sister it was a 65 and while going
through why certain parts of Los Angeles
I actually saw this with my own eyes
police passing out Red Devils now back
then Red Devils was you know you didn't
tell PCP yet Red Devils alive in haryana
stuff I mean he was passing them out
I mean since I've been in prison I've
talked to a lot of guys I lost rating
it's a man that's not an anything you
know they stayed loaded during that
period when it all goes back into the
old war colleges man of whereas Asians
are taught psychological warfare
techniques and that's one of the main
psychological warfare techniques that
they use and that's to paint pictures
that don't really exist
in order to act upon those pictures to
serve your own interests see and we are
just the victims of that we just so
ignorant to these things so naive you
know we were a young political
organization and I'm not just talking
about Panthers I'm talking about
political formations through that
era and we hadn't studied enough we were
trying to man most of time would be
studying our study classes would be
raided by the police you know we've been
talking about Frederick Douglass or
Harriet Tubman or Jesus Christ you know
but it will still kick down so doing
this educational process man we learned
a lot but some say too late you know but
we did learn a lot and I'm really
anxious man to try to share these
learnings and these findings with
younger brothers and sisters so they
won't fall into the same trap
you know because our motivation for
conscientious all the way back and we
weren't out to rob people or murder
people burglarized cause you know we
were really out to try to educate our
people
to liberate ourselves from this colonial
situation that we found ourselves in and
still found ourselves in and just by
doing that it goes against the interests
of the capitalist class who in turn
unleashes therefore these forces on us
and that's where it's at so when you're
exonerated will you still be politically
active well I've always been ever since
I've became politically ignited you know
and I think to do otherwise would be to
live the life of a lie and I can't do
that a lot of people come out and say
well I've changed I'm a born-again
Christian I'm a belong to the Democratic
Party now or I am this and I'm that I
don't like to play I can't play those
kind of games I've never been I wasn't
raised that way I can't be a person who
could compromise his principles like
that
so if you kept in touch with any of the
but the Panthers that have went through
similar ordeal such as you have here at
Brown well you know consistently
throughout my incarceration I have
always kept open open arm policy open
heart passes to those brothers and
sisters it wasn't until the church
committee findings investigating illegal
governmental operations that expose the
truth about the FBI and the CIA's
operation against the Panthers and other
organizations of the sixties that I
started getting feedback from these
people like our instance David here or
who you know is out we've always been
close doing this dog period from maybe
seventy to seventy four or five it was
just about impossible to get any you
know information or any dialogue going
but after these things began to come out
then people began to see it began to
criticize themselves and feel real bad
that they believe the lies that the FBI
had said against people such as myself
so that caused them a little bit of an
opening but still there's a lot of
paranoia around and a lot of suspicions
so far as rap rapping i though we've
always been cool rap the sooner muslim
now he's often to orthodox islam and I
heard he's doing okay we've always tried
to help Karenga we have a little
communication with corner and basically
everyone who was a major victim of these
psychological warfare tactics we're now
trying to expose the truth of this be
this happening all over again you know
we wanna try to alert our people to
these things it is not only happening to
blacks is happening to whites to
Mexicans the conditions in prison now
well since I've been out of a hole I've
been able to have access to log the law
library I've been able to have access to
my family I'm married again and ever
baby girl
I've been able to get away from the
constant pressures that you find in the
hole but you're in San Quentin which is
nothing but a big hole in itself so it's
still problems it's still pretty
difficult to try to air these things out
from this standpoint terrible the San
Quentin has the worst food and the CDC
you know there's no choice for that what
am I gonna eat
go back Louisiana get some good old
Louisiana cooking I was still old
Louisiana boy gives me some gumbo so are
you getting current events to print and
broadcast well I'm right now I'm trying
to save me enough money to buy me
Loretta oh I had one but it was broken
and the papers are not coming like they
used to and I'm trying to get that back
to see the big problem man throughout
this if you is that you finding an
organization a conglomeration of
organizations who are funded by your
momma's and daddies who pay their
salaries taxpayers money and you trying
to expose the your innocence and the
truth of your convictions with pennies
and as it's hard manners
you know
I don't know buddy finance what I'm
doing how are the guards treating you
now yes this has been a big pretty big
change even though you still have quite
a few guards I call it a little racist
clique that's here that refuses to
accept the truth when warden Sumner came
out and admitted that I have never been
involved in gangs and I remained aloof
from gangs it was printed in the Los
Angeles Times also he had a lot of
guards began to talk to me more they
began to check into files and become
more objective so things that have
changed a lot but not as much as I would
like to have seen you know because you
still so many problems just about
anything comes up is my name is even
sounded around it I'm gonna be jammed
you know I'm not given the benefit of
the doubt
so those kind of problems still exist
about your relationship with other
prisoners well I've always and I'm
pretty fortunate I've always maintained
a real good relationship with not only
other prisoners of African descent but
prisons of other ethnic group and such
as white prisons and Mexican prisoners
and one of the things this you might not
know about this that I call Sumner the
former warden here to look into my
situation was right before being
released from the hole amis
international began their investigation
into my case it was in 77
they sent petitions okay now those
petitions were signed by every member
that the CDC had of the Aryan
Brotherhood and every member that the
CDC head of the Mexican Mafia and this
is not counting well you know the blacks
were going to sign
you know I'm that they're very
supportive and so I certainly made sure
a copy went to someone's office because
I've always stood for you know wretches
and just principles even in the whole
you know if a problem occurred between
white black the racial problems that
always existed we're always trying to
resolve them and try to make prisms
understand that old technique of divide
and conquer to keep you're killing each
other off and basic politics of prison
man and so as a result I've been able to
enjoy a real good relationship with
prisoners when petitions are always good
petition in the court Amnesty recently
in last month in October came out with a
demand that the State Department conduct
an investigation into my case it would
be good if we can get more support for
that demand because the demand is
already made and is made from an
independent body and international body
and if we could get support nothing more
than a letter saying that we support of
the demand or the requests of Amnesty
International that and independent
inquiry would be conducted into these
cases that would be a great help
congressman McClaskey represents
McClaskey has been working a lot letters
to his office to Dellums office two
levels of support letters not saying
that hey you know people don't believe
I'm guilty people who haven't been
reading into my case they don't have to
you know say hey let him out because
that would be wrong there would just be
saying things but just if they could
demand a hearing if I could have one
hearing I have not been given not any
hearing into these things since I've
been convicted and all of this
information that come out has has come
out since then
I have been given a hearing on